This is a really quick tip
and there's a lot more you can learn about
this particular tool
but I just want to show you one specific thing.
There is a tool called awk.
You might have seen me use it before, A-W-K
and it's basically a full programme language.
But it's really good at parsing data.
You can do some filtering so that you pipe in, like,
a whole load of lines, you filter using awk,
and you can have it just
automatically print out specific columns that you're after.
And I use this a lot for things like
just grabbing a particular token in the output.
So let me give you a couple of examples.
First of all, I'm doing a curl up here.
You can see on my blog I'm saying give me the headers,
the dash I is give me the headers.
I'm saying make the request, it gets.
I want to check the status code.
Now the status code is here.
There are other ways of doing this
but it's just an example for you.
So it's in this first line,
I don't really care about the rest of them,
so the first thing I'm going to do
is pipe it to head dash one
and that will give us the first line
but I just want the 200.
Now there are different tools to be able to cut stuff up
but awk is really quite simple once you kind of memorise,
just a little bit, the syntax.
So the first one is pipe it at awk.
And we're going to give it a little programme
goes inside of a string.
And the programme needs to go inside of curly braces
and that programme is just going to print, dollar...
I'm going to print dollar two.
So, zero represents the entire string;
one represents the first token;
two, the second;
three and so on forth.
And by default awk is splitting the string up by spaces.
And not just single spaces but entire spaces.
If there's lots of spaces it would treat that
like a token separator.
So if we print out dollar two we get the 200.
If I print out dollar three then we the okay.
And we can put those together as well.
We can do dollar two and I think,
nope that puts them together.
Kind of running out of space on our line here.
Yeah, there we go.
So it's not kind of a...
You don't concatenate like in JavaScript
or another language.
You just do that basically.
So it's printing this list of variables that you give it.
First one is dollar two which is the 200.
Then a space.
Then the three, so 200 okay.
If you don't want any space then that will do the trick.
Another place that's really useful
for when you're doing a ps,
so I want to find all the node processes that are running
and I want to kill them all.
And I can do a ps aux and I get absolutely everything.
No good, right?
So we pipe it to grep.
I'm going to grep the node, but a tonne of stuff here.
And it's really difficult to kind of
go and find each one of the process IDs.
Now, I know that this first column here is the process ID.
And I can copy those individually and do one by one,
or I can pipe that to awk,
again, in a string, curly braces and then print dollar.
I'll show you dollar zero.
Dollar zero is the entire line, we don't want that.
Dollar one is the owner.
Dollar two is the process ID.
So this is the list of process IDs
and from there I can go through each one and kill them.
I can copy and paste that into a file and just do kill.
Or I can use a command called xarg
which I'll show you in a moment.
But awk, very useful.
Particularly if you only learn how to do this part.
If you look at the original output
you can see there's quite a large number of spaces here.
It will just say okay I'm just going to break.
That is the tokenizer, the spaces,
and I'm going to refer to dollar one, two, three, four
to get each individual column.
So, it logs into it, and so on and so forth.
Cool.